ever wonder why some people are able to
hold conversations forever with people
hanging on every single word they say
while your conversations feel just about
as good as wet socks do it's awkwardly
uncomfortable you and I call those
people natural communicators also known
as extroverts or also showoffs today
we're going to break down the mindset of
the show I I mean the extroverts so you
can feel as comfortable in conversations
as they do strategies and Frameworks you
can take and use over and over and over
again to enhance your conversations and
a secret trick that gives you infinite
ways to keep a conversation going and
get others to love the conversations
that they have with you but first what's
the biggest mistake people like you and
I make when trying to improve our social
skills you might go to a quick search on
Google and find advice like just be
yourself or don't worry so much or just
go talk to people and for introverts
that advice is as easy to follow as
beating you bolt in a race when you're
wearing flipflops and you've tried that
Biggest Mistake
process enough times to where now you do
whatever you need to do in order to
avoid social interactions at all costs
if you haven't guessed by the title of
this video Never running out of things
to say is easy actually and the good
news is there is absolutely no downside
to improving your communication skills
only upside and it's upside for every
area of your life and improving your
ability to communicate comes down to
three simple areas first is knowledge
second is repetition of that knowledge
and finally inhibition or lack thereof
that being said you can have the best
word tracks and the smoothest lines ever
but if you don't have the right mindset
they won't do a thing for you I wish
someone would have told me this when I
was 18 years old but you don't have to
carry the entire weight of a
conversation on your shoulders if a
conversation grows stale or the other
person just seems uninterested or they
leave the conversation without
validating each and every single one of
my needs you don't have to blame
yourself for it I'm going to give you a
simple way to help take that weight off
your shoulders but before diving any
further I helped a cousin of mine with
his social game last year at the start
of his journey he would often say things
like look everything you're saying is
simple and it makes perfect sense but in
the moment I'm just so in my head about
what you would say in this situation I
just freeze up I told him that means you
aren't present in the conversation and
you can't be because you're in your own
head
now that's a part of the learning
process that will happen for everyone
and my goal here is to help you feel
comfortable in any conversation and
enjoy them as well but to get to that
point information must become
internalized and that's when you become
a natural Communicator so don't give up
on yourself Midway through this journey
and I'm not going to let you do that
well that's great Stickman I Won't Give
Up on myself and I'll try to take the
pressure off my shoulders but I still
don't know what to say and that's the
beautiful thing you don't have to know
what to say
what if you look up the definition of
conversation you'll see it's a talk
especially an informal one between two
or more people in which news and ideas
are exchanged feeling like you have to
fill every pause in a conversation is
pressure and it's a burden that's
impossible for you to carry the best
advice I ever receive to improve my own
communication is to ask more questions
Ask More Questions
which it makes a lot of sense when you
think back to the last conversation you
had with a three-year-old what you doing
I'm cooking dinner why so you aren't
hungry anymore why so you can grow big
and strong but why I think you get the
point technically that conversation can
go on and on forever and a
three-year-old is the one controlling
the
conversation so if a toddler can do it
so can you thankfully for us we can ask
questions other than why although it is
a good question it gets very annoying
after a while have you ever heard the
saying there are no such things as bad
questions well that's not entirely true
listen to this clip from the David
Letterman show and tell me if this
conversation is relaxed and comfortable
or if it feels more like wet socks where
where are you from originally uh I'm
from Wilmington Delaware Wilmington
Delaware I don't I don't know many
people from Delaware thank you yeah so
was that comfortable or like wet socks I
felt more like wet socks let's try that
conversation again and this time I'll
change David's questions so where are
you from originally
uh I'm from Wilmington Delaware ah what
do you like most about Wilmington oh
it's the river for sure I have to visit
every time I go back uh the river for me
I love visiting Lake havu the water
there brings me so much peace I try to
make it out there a few times per year
why is the river such a draw for you
just like you said it's it's just so
peaceful my parents used to take me when
I was younger on walks and to fish some
of my best days straight it's the only
place and that's basically my whole life
story asking good questions and you get
bonus points for asking questions on
topics that people love to talk about
that will take the weight off your
shoulders while making the conversation
easy for them to carry notice how little
David said in the second example yet
both people felt relaxed H I've never
thought about asking more questions
before that's great but I still don't
know what to ask want to know a trick
that'll help you out even more than
asking good questions it's to give
yourself the blessing to pause to slow
down think about any interview a CEO
does like Jeff Bezos or Elon Musk they
are never rushed they never panic and
the reason is is because they give
themselves time to think of the best
response possible not just shout the
first thing that pops into their head
the person who is quickest to answer
usually makes the most mistakes feeling
like you always have to say something
quick is one of the reasons you do feel
so uncomfortable and the need you feel
to respond immediately adds more
pressure to you and you don't need need
to respond immediately there is power in
pausing and slowing down 3 seconds of a
pause may feel like an eternity to you
but it's really nothing don't rush to
respond don't rush to give an answer
take your time if needed you can even
say that for example what are your
thoughts on YouTubers asking you to
subscribe hm good question I need to
think about that first deep breath slow
exhale you'd be surprised how
understanding others will be and they
will respect you for taking time to
think about what they said I've heard
some people feel that YouTube channels
asking people to subscribe is annoying
but in my experience subscribing allows
me to let that channel know I receive
value from them and I'll usually comment
to let them know what else I'd like
their Insight on wow that's such a great
response you're amazing what I tell you
if you're present in the conversation
and you give yourself a chance to think
because you're human questions will
naturally come to you for a proven
repeatable strategy you can use over and
over and over again let's take Joe Rogan
for example he is a phenomenal
Communicator as evidenced by his podcast
being the number one in the world he
speaks with experts from all different
types of backgrounds from scientists to
athletes to philosophers he is genuinely
interested in the conversation at hand
and it would be rude not to be and in
doing so he can hold a conversation with
all of them but how one tactic he uses
The Last 3 Words
time and time again is the last three
words trick when a guest finishes
speaking he will often repeat back the
last few words they say for example it's
not like I want to like take over the
world I just want to like make a good
living doing what I love that's all I
want you know and it's it'sing hard I
know it's hard this allows Joe to help
the guest feel heard it also buys him
time to think of an appropriate response
and naturally keeps the conversation
going the next step in this process is
the transition and Joe is an expert at
this he does this in every podcast he
looks to talk about topics that both
people are interested in simple really
but most people try to keep a
conversation going about topics you or
the other person aren't even interested
in of course those conversations would
be difficult find one to two
foundational topics that you enjoy to
keep in your back pocket for Joe one of
his topics is DMT he will find a way to
bring it up in most of his podcasts if
the other person bites and has a good
reaction they might end up talking about
it for an hour if the guest isn't a fan
Joe just moves on and finds a different
topic to discuss the way to make this as
simple as possible for you in any
situation is to understand the next
secret when I learned this from a mentor
I was able to close deals and sales
upwards of $100,000 attract my beautiful
stick figure wife and be able to make
friends wherever I went naturally it is
so simple anyone can learn with practice
so look at this example a girl says I
love working out I really really enjoy
just being in the gym and challenging
myself with hard workouts it's a great
exercise and I feel more confident
afterwards there are a few things you
can respond to in that statement most
people choose to respond to the content
of what she said yeah I love working out
too especially CrossFit or maybe I feel
you I also like to work out actually one
of my favorite things to do is
weightlifting these responses aren't bad
per se but they're not great either if
you want to take it to a more meaningful
conversation you can respond to the
emotion of what was said you can say
something like well what do you love
most about working out this allows her
to talk more about her and what she
likes and people love to do so meaning
you're putting the weight of the
conversation on someone else and you
don't have to carry it or you can say
when I was younger I didn't handle
challenges well felt like the world was
unfair and out to get me once I got into
working out I felt a sense of
accomplishment from challenging myself
and I'm just so grateful for it notice
some vulnerability added which helps
other people feel more comfortable
opening up as well the response is also
focused on the emotion of accomplishment
and gratefulness positive associations
which encourage conversations to
continue we're all emotional creatures
and the way you build deep meaningful
conversations is to stay away from
surface level questions like David and
Trigger emotions and conversations
preferably about things people like to
talk about they'll be more than willing
to talk forever a final example response
is to a address the underlying message
of what someone is saying so using the
same example notice the difference here
in response I love working out I really
enjoy just being in the gym and
challenging myself with hard workouts
it's a great exercise and I feel more
confident afterwards hm and how's your
stamina said with strong eye contact and
a cocky grin and kids that's how I met
your mother but Riz and attraction is a
topic for a different video go into
conversations wanting a good in result
not needing a good result wanting and
hoping for a good result takes more
weight off your shoulders you've
survived every conversation you've had
up into this point you will be okay
needing a certain outcome affects how
you show up in a conversation the energy
you put out and the energy the other
person receives from you if you're
anxious the other person will feel that
and believe me you do not want to be
like me during this video where I need
you to subscribe or I'm going to have
wet socks for a week please do not do
that to me please